Create a getting started on K8s page (#1932)
NVIDIA/spark-rapids: docs/get-started/getting-started-kubernetes.md

[Dockerfile.cuda](Dockerfile.cuda) example.

## Prerequisites
    * Kubernetes cluster is up and running with NVIDIA GPU support
    * Docker is installed on a client machine
    * A Docker repository which is accessible by the Kubernetes cluster

These instructions do not cover how to setup a Kubernetes cluster.

Please refer to [Install Kubernetes](https://docs.nvidia.com/datacenter/cloud-native/kubernetes/install-k8s.html) on 
how to install a Kubernetes cluster with NVIDIA GPU support.

## Docker Image Preparation

On a client machine which has access to the Kubernetes cluster:

1. [Download Apache Spark](https://spark.apache.org/downloads.html).
   Supported versions of Spark are listed on the [RAPIDS Accelerator download page](../download.md).  Please note that only
   Scala version 2.12 is currently supported by the accelerator. 

   Note that you can download these into a local directory and untar the Spark `.tar.gz` as a directory named `spark`.

2. Download the [RAPIDS Accelerator for Spark jars](getting-started-on-prem.md#download-the-rapids-jars) and the
  [GPU discovery script](getting-started-on-prem.md#install-the-gpu-discovery-script).
  

>    Put the 2 jars -- `rapids-4-spark_<version>.jar`, `cudf-<version>.jar`  and `getGpusResources.sh` in the same directory as `spark`.

Reviewer: we should clarify this and say in the jars directory within the spark download

Author: @tgravescs Actually this means the spark directory + 2 jars + getGpusResources.sh are in the same directory.

Reviewer: oh sorry I see.   the docker file in next step will move them.

---
layout: page
title: Kubernetes

> nav_order: 1

Author: Fixed

   scala version 2.12 is currently supported by the accelerator. 

   Note that you can download these into a local directory and untar the Spark `.tar.gz` as a directory named `spark`.

2. Download [RAPIDS Accelerator for Spark jars](getting-started-on-prem.md#download-the-rapids-jars), and the
  [GPU discovery script](getting-started-on-prem.md#install-the-gpu-discovery-script).
  
   Put the 2 jars -- `rapids-4-spark_<version>.jar`, `cudf-<version>.jar`  and `getGpusResources.sh` in the same directory as `spark`.

3. Download the sample [Dockerfile.cuda](Dockerfile.cuda) in the same directory as `spark`.

   Basically the sample Dockerfile.cuda will copy the `spark` directory's several sub-directories into `/opt/spark/`, 
   and copy above 2 jars and `getGpusResources.sh` into `/opt/sparkRapidsPlugin` inside the Docker image.
   
   So please look into the Dockerfile.cuda to make sure the file names are correct, and modify if needed.
   
   Currently the directory in the local machine should look as below:
   ```shell 
   $ ls
   Dockerfile.cuda   cudf-<version>.jar   getGpusResources.sh   rapids-4-spark_<version>.jar   spark
   ```

> 4. Build the Docker image with proper repository name and tag and push to repository

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Build the Docker image with a proper repository name and tag and push it to the repository
```

   ```shell 
   export IMAGE_NAME=xxx/yyy:tag
   docker build . -f Dockerfile.cuda -t $IMAGE_NAME
   docker push $IMAGE_NAME

>    ```

Reviewer 3: Do we really require the user build a docker image to run this in Kubernetes? I would expect an automated build in docker hub and this doc to distill down to `kubectl apply -f https://github.com/NVIDIA/rapids/examples/k8s/deply.yaml` or, is complex, `helm install ...` and an example workload.

Author: @hyperbolic2346  this could one goal. Currently this guide is to give users a way to customize the docker image if they want.

> ## Run Spark Applications in Kubernetes Cluster

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Running Spark Applications in the Kubernetes Cluster
```

> ### spark-submit example pi job in `cluster` mode.
> 
> This is a good way to test if RAPIDS plugin can be found.
> Because `ClassNotFoundException` is a common error if the Driver can not 
> find the jar for `com.nvidia.spark.SQLPlugin`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Submitting a Simple Test Job

This simple job will test if the RAPIDS plugin can be found.
`ClassNotFoundException` is a common error if the Spark driver can not 
find the RAPIDS Accelerator jar, resulting in an exception like this:
```

```
Exception in thread "main" java.lang.ClassNotFoundException: com.nvidia.spark.SQLPlugin
```

Here is an example job: 

```shell
export SPARK_HOME=~/spark
export IMAGE_NAME=xxx/yyy:tag
export K8SMASTER=k8s://https://<k8s-apiserver-host>:<k8s-apiserver-port>
export SPARK_NAMESPACE=default
export SPARK_DRIVER_NAME=exampledriver

$SPARK_HOME/bin/spark-submit \
     --master $K8SMASTER \
     --deploy-mode cluster  \
     --name examplejob \
     --class org.apache.spark.examples.SparkPi \

>      --conf spark.rapids.sql.concurrentGpuTasks=1 \

Reviewer 2: This is the default.
```suggestion
```

     --conf spark.executor.instances=1 \
     --conf spark.executor.resource.gpu.amount=1 \
     --conf spark.executor.memory=4G \
     --conf spark.executor.cores=1 \
     --conf spark.task.cpus=1 \
     --conf spark.task.resource.gpu.amount=1 \

>      --conf spark.rapids.memory.pinnedPool.size=2G \

Reviewer 2: If we're going to ask for 2GB of pinned memory outside of the executor heap then I think we need to set `spark.kubernetes.memoryOverheadFactor` accordingly so Kubernetes expects the extra memory usage.

     --conf spark.locality.wait=0s \
     --conf spark.sql.files.maxPartitionBytes=512m \
     --conf spark.sql.shuffle.partitions=10 \
     --conf spark.plugins=com.nvidia.spark.SQLPlugin \
     --conf spark.kubernetes.namespace=$SPARK_NAMESPACE  \
     --conf spark.kubernetes.driver.pod.name=$SPARK_DRIVER_NAME  \
     --conf spark.executor.resource.gpu.discoveryScript=/opt/sparkRapidsPlugin/getGpusResources.sh \
     --conf spark.executor.resource.gpu.vendor=nvidia.com \
     --conf spark.kubernetes.container.image=$IMAGE_NAME \

>      --conf spark.executor.extraClassPath=/opt/sparkRapidsPlugin/rapids-4-spark_<version>.jar:/opt/sparkRapidsPlugin/cudf-<version>.jar   \

Reviewer: extraClassPath shouldn't be needed with kubernetes

Author: @tgravescs This depends on: When building the container image, do we put the 2 jars into "jars" subdirectory of spark or not in the Docker container.  If yes, then no need, because those 2 jars are already there. However if we just copy it into /opt/sparkRapidsPlugin in Docker container, then we need to specify it here. This is to give a better clear picture for customers imo.

Reviewer: I yes there are multiple ways to do this, this doc is putting them in /jars do not needed. I'm fine with adding something else saying if you don't put them in /jars then you may need to include them somehow, or we document all the known ways of doing this.  For instance you could also use --jars with spark -submit if you have setup shared storage space. I honestly don't know if you do this if they need to be included in extra class path.

Author: If using --jars, then no need since those jars after --jars will be sent to each executors.

Reviewer: so it will depends on what spark does with them and who downloads them. If the jars aren't downloaded before starting the executor and put in class path then we still may need the extraClassPath options

Reviewer: I haven't ever tried this or looked at the k8s code for this case.

Author: May need to use spark.kubernetes.file.upload.path to point to a shared storage.

Reviewer: ming this is going by these instructions, the jars are in the spark/jars directory so we should remove them from this sample command and add in a separately section if you want to states other ways to do it.

Author: I just added some words to explain that:
`Note: If here you decide to put above 2 jars in the spark/jars directory which will be copied into /opt/spark/jars directory in Docker image, then in the future you do not need to specify spark.driver.extraClassPath or spark.executor.extraClassPath using cluster mode. This example just shows you a way to put customized jars or 3rd party jars.`

See if it looks good to you. Feel free to reword if needed.

     --conf spark.driver.extraClassPath=/opt/sparkRapidsPlugin/rapids-4-spark_<version>.jar:/opt/sparkRapidsPlugin/cudf-<version>.jar   \
     --driver-memory 2G \
     local:///opt/spark/examples/jars/spark-examples_2.12-3.0.2.jar
```

   Note: `local://` means the jar file location is inside the Docker image.

>    Since this is `cluster` mode, the Driver is running inside a POD in Kubernetes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Since this is `cluster` mode, the Spark driver is running inside a pod in Kubernetes.
```

>    When the job is running, we could see both Driver POD and Executor POD(s):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   The driver and executor pods can be seen when the job is running:
```

```shell
$ kubectl get pods
NAME                               READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
spark-pi-d11075782f399fd7-exec-1   1/1     Running   0          9s
exampledriver                      1/1     Running   0          15s
```

>    To view the Driver log, use below command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   To view the Spark driver log, use below command:
```

```shell
kubectl logs $SPARK_DRIVER_NAME
```

>    To view the Spark Driver UI when the job is running:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   To view the Spark driver UI when the job is running first expose the driver UI port:
```

```shell

> kubectl port-forward $SPARK_DRIVER_NAME 4040:4040

Reviewer: would this be cluster specific?

Author: This is not. "4040" is the default port for driver and is also used by Spark doc: https://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/configuration.html

Reviewer: what is multiple drivers on the same host?  Spark increments the port number for you.   Do some clusters just have aces open so I can just access it. etc... this is what I mean by cluster specific. I'm fine with this as long as we document.

Author: Oh i see, i think configurations like spark.driver.port should not need to be documented by us and users can refer to spark guide for all configs. this may just be a quick start guide. How do you think?

Reviewer: yeah quick start is fine perhaps at the beginning of the doc we can add a sentence ssaying this is quick start thing can be slightly different for different cluster setups, see your spark configs.

Author: "This is a quick start guide which uses default settings which may be different from your cluster." added.

```

>    Then open web browser:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Then open a web browser to the Spark driver UI page on the exposed port:
```

```shell
http://localhost:4040
```

>    To kill the Spark job and delete Driver POD:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   To kill the Spark job and delete driver pod:
```

Author: resolved manually

```shell
$SPARK_HOME/bin/spark-submit --kill spark:$SPARK_DRIVER_NAME

> kubectl delete pod $SPARK_DRIVER_NAME

Reviewer: why do we need to delete it?

Author: Good question. Several reasons: 1. The driver pod may not be cleaned in time after the job completes,  so if we may need to manually clean it to run the test again. 2. Due to some reasons the driver may fail(such as noclassfound exception), then we may need to clean it manually.

Reviewer: this will remove the logs for that job as well though won't it?

Author: Correct. maybe i can say "To delete the Driver POD:" section instead of putting it under "kill job" section

Author: Just added  "To delete the Driver POD" section. How do you think right now?

Reviewer: yeah that's fine

```

> ### spark-shell in `client` mode with an interactive shell

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Running an Interactive Spark Shell
```

> If you need an interactive spark-shell with Executor POD(s) running inside Kubernetes:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you need an interactive Spark shell with executor pods running inside the Kubernetes cluster:
```

```shell
$SPARK_HOME/bin/spark-shell \
     --master $K8SMASTER \
     --name mysparkshell \
     --deploy-mode client  \

>      --conf spark.rapids.sql.concurrentGpuTasks=1 \

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

     --conf spark.executor.instances=1 \
     --conf spark.executor.resource.gpu.amount=1 \
     --conf spark.executor.memory=4G \
     --conf spark.executor.cores=1 \
     --conf spark.task.cpus=1 \
     --conf spark.task.resource.gpu.amount=1 \

>      --conf spark.rapids.memory.pinnedPool.size=2G \

Reviewer 2: If we're going to ask for 2GB of pinned memory outside of the executor heap then I think we need to set `spark.kubernetes.memoryOverheadFactor` accordingly so Kubernetes expects the extra memory usage.

Author: Added spark.executor.memoryOverhead=3G in each spark-submit.

     --conf spark.locality.wait=0s \
     --conf spark.sql.files.maxPartitionBytes=512m \
     --conf spark.sql.shuffle.partitions=10 \
     --conf spark.plugins=com.nvidia.spark.SQLPlugin \
     --conf spark.kubernetes.namespace=$SPARK_NAMESPACE  \
     --conf spark.executor.resource.gpu.discoveryScript=/opt/sparkRapidsPlugin/getGpusResources.sh \
     --conf spark.executor.resource.gpu.vendor=nvidia.com \
     --conf spark.kubernetes.container.image=$IMAGE_NAME \

>      --conf spark.executor.extraClassPath=/opt/sparkRapidsPlugin/rapids-4-spark_<version>.jar:/opt/sparkRapidsPlugin/cudf-<version>.jar   \

Reviewer: spark.executor.extraClassPath shouldn't be needed

Author: As mentioned in previous comment we need to set the 2 parameters if the 2 jars are not in the jars directory of spark in Docker.

     --driver-class-path=./cudf-<version>.jar:./rapids-4-spark_<version>.jar \
     --driver-memory 2G 
```

> Only `client` mode is applicable. If you specify this as `cluster` mode, you would see below error:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Only the `client` deploy mode should be used. If you specify the `cluster` deploy mode, you would see the following error:
```

```shell
Cluster deploy mode is not applicable to Spark shells.
```

> And also you notice that here we removed `--conf spark.driver.extraClassPath` but added `--driver-class-path`.
> This is because now the Driver is running on the client machine so the jar paths should be local machine path.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Also notice that `--conf spark.driver.extraClassPath` was removed but `--driver-class-path` was added.
This is because now the driver is running on the client machine, so the jar paths should be local filesystem paths.
```

> Only the Executor POD(s) are running inside Kubernetes:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When running the shell you can see only the executor pods are running inside Kubernetes:
```

```
$ kubectl get pods
NAME                                     READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
mysparkshell-bfe52e782f44841c-exec-1     1/1     Running   0          11s
```

> We can run below scala code in `spark-shell` to test if GPU is enabled for our queries:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following Scala code can be run in the Spark shell to test if the RAPIDS Accelerator is enabled.
```

```shell
val df = spark.sparkContext.parallelize(Seq(1)).toDF()
df.createOrReplaceTempView("df")
spark.sql("SELECT value FROM df WHERE value <>1").show
spark.sql("SELECT value FROM df WHERE value <>1").explain
:quit
```

> The expected explain plan should contain the GPU related operators:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The expected `explain` plan should contain the GPU related operators:
```

```shell
scala> spark.sql("SELECT value FROM df WHERE value <>1").explain
== Physical Plan ==
GpuColumnarToRow false
+- GpuFilter NOT (value#2 = 1)
   +- GpuRowToColumnar TargetSize(2147483647)
      +- *(1) SerializeFromObject [input[0, int, false] AS value#2]
         +- Scan[obj#1]
```

> ### spark-submit python code in `client` mode.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Running PySpark in Client Mode
```

> Of course, you can `COPY` the python code in the Docker image when building it.
> Then you can spark-submit it using `cluster` mode as previous example pi job.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Of course, you can `COPY` the Python code in the Docker image when building it
and submit it using the `cluster` deploy mode as showin in the previous example pi job.
```

> However if you do not want to re-build the Docker image each time and just want to submit the python code

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However if you do not want to re-build the Docker image each time and just want to submit the Python code
```

> from the client machine, you can use `client` mode.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
from the client machine, you can use the `client` deploy mode.
```

```shell
$SPARK_HOME/bin/spark-submit \
     --master $K8SMASTER \
     --deploy-mode client  \
     --name mypythonjob \

>      --conf spark.rapids.sql.concurrentGpuTasks=1 \

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

     --conf spark.executor.instances=1 \
     --conf spark.executor.resource.gpu.amount=1 \
     --conf spark.executor.memory=4G \
     --conf spark.executor.cores=1 \
     --conf spark.task.cpus=1 \
     --conf spark.task.resource.gpu.amount=1 \

>      --conf spark.rapids.memory.pinnedPool.size=2G \

Reviewer 2: Need to set `spark.kubernetes.memoryOverheadFactor` as well.

Author: @jlowe Do you mean the default spark.kubernetes.memoryOverheadFactor=0.1 is not enough? What is your suggestion on the value of spark.kubernetes.memoryOverheadFactor is we pin 2G memory in this case?

Reviewer 2: No, 0.1 is not going to be enough even in this trivial example because 4G heap * 0.1 overhead is only ~400M of overhead, and that's not enough to cover the 2G of pinned memory (along with regular JVM overhead).  In this case it would need to be set to something like 0.6 with 0.5 to cover the 2G of pinned memory and the remaining 0.1 to cover the JVM itself as for normal Spark-on-k8s JVM jobs.

Author: @jlowe i just added spark.kubernetes.memoryOverheadFactor=0.6 can you take a look?thx 
I tested this in example job and it works.

Reviewer: personally I don't like recommending changing the overhead factor as it changes with the amount of memory you specify, I would prefer to see us use 

spark.executor.memoryOverhead

which is not k8s specific so it applies to multiple resource managers and you set it at a value. If we know pinned memory is going to be 2G, set it to 3G for instance. This lets you change the executor memory size without having to worry about changing this one as well.

Reviewer 2: Yes, +1.  I should have pointed to spark.executor.memoryOverhead.

Author: Yep just Changed to spark.executor.memoryOverhead=3G
